[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So the current system that's
in place around the world is
about competition, separation.
But it could be
about cooperation,
but we have to elevate the
consciousness of the species.
>> We have two ways
to approach life.
One is competitively,
and one is cooperatively.
And they're mutually exclusive.
You're either competing,
or you're cooperating.
And we have been sold
the idea that competition
is how you succeed, it's
how you get to the top.
You have to climb over everybody
else's bodies to get there.
>> I think that a lot of times
when I would do business deals
or business ventures, there's
always this feeling like this
person's probably going
to try to screw me.
Maybe I'm going to
try to screw them.
I don't know, but
I know that there's
a limited amount of resources.
And I've got to take that where
they're going to take that,
and I've got to be a little bit
smarter maybe, a little more
clever to protect my side of it.
>> One of the ways that I coped
with that system was to compete
for awhile, compete for
whatever resources there were
for whatever the measurements
were at the time to just
compete and somehow feel better
than because when I was winning
or something.
>> If somebody else was
successful, I was jealous.
If I was successful,
they were jealous.
Absolutely.
That was definitely
a way of life.
>> You've got to be
very cautious of letting
your material things own you.
And that's what I see.
A lot of people let their
possessions own them,
and they lose themselves
in their possessions.
And that's not prosperity.
>> So every thought that you
have is motivated by fear,
which means it's going to
be greed, jealousy, envy,
all of these different things--
selfishness-- because you're
coming from that survival
brain.
You're coming from a brain
that's saying, it's me or them.
And I got to work harder.
I got to do this.
And I got to take from
them in order to survive.
>> I got as caught up as anybody
in trying to win the game,
trying to play the hierarchy,
getting obsessed with things
like when am I going
to make director,
and then when am I going to get
the good office with the good
window.
It's a very natural
game to play.
We all get caught up in that.
For me, the game of
playing the corporate game
was all about fixing all
the ways I was broken.
So I'm not a good
enough negotiator.
I'm going to go
study negotiation.
I don't have an MBA.
I don't have a
piece of paper that
says I'm more qualified
than the person.
I know I'm more qualified then.
So do I go out and get the MBA?
>> And then we might try,
well, if it's not going to work
for me as a worker, then
maybe I'll be an owner.
And maybe that'll work for me.
But if we're still in
the paradigm of scarcity,
then being an owner
doesn't really work either.
It's just another
kind of prison.
It's another kind of place
where we do long hours,
and we sacrifice our health,
and we sacrifice our family
because we don't really
believe in abundance.
We're still believing
in scarcity.
So people can
spend a lot of time
in that little vortex where
they haven't really challenged
the core belief in scarcity.
>> Awareness is the first
thing that we have to do.
You have to be aware
that you are in a system
and be able to step
back from that.
>> Because when you
compete with other people,
someone's got to
lose and someone--
in order for someone to
win, someone has to lose.
When I compete with myself, it's
a very different experience.
I'm now just trying to be my
best self in a very different
way than I was then.
>> I prefer to think that
there's more than enough
of everything for everybody.
And I live my life that way.
And I live my life playing
at a plane of not competing
but of cooperation.
>> We could end
disease, poverty,
and hunger today as a species.
There's plenty.
But because of separation,
because of lack,
we are creating pain
all over the world.
>> When you talk to
people about money,
why they strive for money,
why they want money,
and you get down to the-- you
start asking the why question,
you get down to the core of why.
Why is never, never,
never about money.
Why is about happiness.
Why is about because I want
my family to be taken care of.
I want to be connected.
I want-- it's a whole
different thing when
you get beneath what it is.
Money is a symbol.
>> Given the belief systems
of our family systems,
our culture, the part of even
the country we grew up in lead
us to believe there's
a pathway to success,
to being a good person.
And often these are
other people's ideas
and aren't about what you
think you want for you.
And so the most important
thing I think you could do
is step back and say,
what's my heart's desire?
What do I really want in life?
Not what is somebody else's--
what is somebody else's
definition of success?
Success is, I think, what
really feeds your spirit
and makes you feel
good about your life,
makes you want to get up
every morning and go for it.
>> It is so important to be able
to find out what you really,
really, really are inspired
and love to do in your career,
so you're not doing it
because you have to.
You're doing it
because you love to.
That's when you're
most creative.
>> There's a great
expression that,
you can never get enough of what
you didn't need in the first
place.
And when we put our enoughness
from within and say,
I am enough as I
am, then you can
quit chasing all that
nonsense because you can chase
nonsense the rest of your life.
You can chase nonsense forever,
and you will never get there.
The house will
never be big enough.
The car will never
be swanky enough.
You're never going to be
thin enough, young enough,
whatever it might be.
You have to find that
abundance within who you are.
>> So I think that there's four
levels that we can be living
in.
One is a scarcity
mentality where
we think that there isn't enough
for us or for anybody else.
The other is a security mindset.
And security is that
there's just enough for me
to be secure.
The other is a
success mindset, which
is that there's enough for me,
and there's more than enough
for me.
And then there's a
significance mindset.
And the significant mindset is
that there's more than enough
for me and everybody else.
>> For me I spent so much of
my time running from myself,
running from my fears,
running from my anxieties,
trying to dampen them down,
trying to strive to be better,
to be more, to be
worthy, to be deserving.
All that striving was
about me not feeling
like I was good enough,
not feeling like I was OK,
and being afraid of
that, being afraid of not
being good enough.
And now I see that there was
so much abundance in my life,
always, no matter what my
financial circumstances were.
But I couldn't see
it because I was
too busy running from myself.
And now I see that
through abundance from me
resides in when I'm
present to my life, when
I'm present to what
I have, when I'm
present to all of
the good things,
and appreciating all the good
things and conscious of them
and grateful for
them, noticing them.
And it wasn't possible
for me to do that
when I was always
running from myself.
I couldn't be here when I
was running from who I was.
>> And the biggest surprise
that's come for me from all
of the belief change work I've
done and also all of the act
of wealth consciousness work
I've done is my relationship
with myself because when I was
younger, I didn't like myself.
And I didn't really like
who I was in the world.
And what's happened
is I've really
developed a good
relationship with myself.
And that's allowed me to
have more love in my life.
And my relationships with
my friends and family
are really good.
And every night
when I go to bed,
I'm always so grateful that all
of the relationships in my life
are harmonious.
And that has come out of
all the work that I've done.
And that's a really
nice surprise.
And what's interesting
about this work
is that when you start
working on your beliefs
about money and
wealth, everything
will change for you because
money is a metaphor for who
you are in the world.
>> It's great to have
gratitude and appreciation.
But remember to also have
compassion for yourself.
Every single day, you're
doing the best you can.
We're all doing the best we can.
>> One way you can begin
to break through this kind
of scarcity mindset is to create
an abundant mindset, which is,
in many ways, creating a state
of gratitude for what you have.
If you can truly appreciate
things, appreciate life,
appreciate your possessions,
appreciate your skills,
appreciate yourself,
appreciate the people with you,
that's a wealthy mindset.
And what's funny and
interesting about that
in all of our
travels, when people
adopt that way of thinking,
then the material things
come anyway.
And then they're not important.
>> One of my mentors said
when you want what you have,
you will have what you want.
I love that.
So now I look around my
day and not what do I want,
but what do I already have?
And make it I want that.
Turn it into I want that.
I want the house I'm living in.
I want the body I have.
I want the
relationship I already
have with all the
imperfections already in there.
That releases this profound
abundance activation energy
in self.
[MUSIC PLAYING]